ipython(1) -- Tools for Interactive Computing in Python
=======================================================

##描述

A Python shell with automatic history (input and output), dynamic object
introspection, easier configuration, command completion, access to the
system shell and more. IPython can also be embedded in running programs.

##语法

`ipython [subcommand] [options] [-c cmd | -m mod | file] [--] [arg] ...`

If invoked with no options, it executes the file and exits, passing the
remaining arguments to the script, just as if you had specified the same
command with python. You may need to specify `--` before args to be passed
to the script, to prevent IPython from attempting to parse them. If you
specify the option `-i` before the filename, it will enter an interactive
IPython session after running the script, rather than exiting. Files ending
in .py will be treated as normal Python, but files ending in .ipy can
contain special IPython syntax (magic commands, shell expansions, etc.).

Almost all configuration in IPython is available via the command-line. Do
`ipython --help-all` to see all available options. For persistent
configuration, look into your `ipython_config.py` configuration file for
details.

This file is typically installed in the `IPYTHONDIR` directory, and there
is a separate configuration directory for each profile. The default profile
directory will be located in $IPYTHONDIR/profile_default. IPYTHONDIR
defaults to to `$HOME/.ipython`. For Windows users, $HOME resolves to
C:\Documents and Settings\YourUserName in most instances.

To initialize a profile with the default configuration file, do::

	$> ipython profile create

and start editing `IPYTHONDIR/profile_default/ipython_config.py`

In IPython's documentation, we will refer to this directory as
`IPYTHONDIR`, you can change its default location by creating an
environment variable with this name and setting it to the desired path.

For more information, see the manual available in HTML and PDF in your
installation, or online at http://ipython.org/documentation.html.

##Subcommands

Subcommands are launched as `ipython cmd [args]`. For information on using
subcommand 'cmd', do: `ipython cmd -h`.

kernelspec
  Manage IPython kernel specifications.
locate
  print the path to the IPython dir
qtconsole
  Launch the IPython Qt Console.
nbconvert
  Convert notebooks to/from other formats.
history
  Manage the IPython history database.
install-nbextension
  Install IPython notebook extension files
trust
  Sign notebooks to trust their potentially unsafe contents at load.
kernel
  Start a kernel without an attached frontend.
profile
  Create and manage IPython profiles.
notebook
  Launch the IPython HTML Notebook Server.
console
  Launch the IPython terminal-based Console.

##选项

Arguments that take values are actually convenience aliases to full
Configurables, whose aliases are listed on the help line. For more information
on full configurables, see '--help-all'.

--no-autoedit-syntax
  Turn off auto editing of files with syntax errors.
-i
  If running code from the command line, become interactive afterwards.
--automagic
  Turn on the auto calling of magic commands. Type %%magic at the
  IPython prompt for more information.
--quiet
  set log level to logging.CRITICAL (minimize logging output)
--color-info
  IPython can display information about objects via a set of functions,
  and optionally can use colors for this, syntax highlighting
  source code and various other elements. This is on by default, but can cause
  problems with some pagers. If you see such problems, you can disable the
  colours.
--pydb
  Use the third party 'pydb' package as debugger, instead of pdb.
  Requires that pydb is installed.
--autoindent
  Turn on autoindenting.
--no-automagic
  Turn off the auto calling of magic commands.
--init
  Initialize profile with default config files. This is equivalent
  to running `ipython profile create <profile>` prior to startup.
--no-color-info
  Disable using colors for info related things.
--debug
  set log level to logging.DEBUG (maximize logging output)
--deep-reload
  Enable deep (recursive) reloading by default. IPython can use the
  deep_reload module which reloads changes in modules recursively (it
  replaces the reload() function, so you don't need to change anything to
  use it). deep_reload() forces a full reload of modules whose code may
  have changed, which the default reload() function does not. When
  deep_reload is off, IPython will use the normal reload(), but
  deep_reload will still be available as dreload(). This feature is off
  by default [which means that you have both normal reload() and
  dreload()].
--classic
  Gives IPython a similar feel to the classic Python prompt.
--no-banner
  Don't display a banner upon starting IPython.
--quick
  Enable quick startup with no config files.
--no-deep-reload
  Disable deep (recursive) reloading by default.
--nosep
  Eliminate all spacing between prompts.
--no-autoindent
  Turn off autoindenting.
--no-term-title
  Disable auto setting the terminal title.
--term-title
  Enable auto setting the terminal title.
--no-confirm-exit
  Don't prompt the user when exiting.
--matplotlib
  Configure matplotlib for interactive use with
  the default matplotlib backend.
--no-pdb
  Disable auto calling the pdb debugger after every exception.
--pprint
  Enable auto pretty printing of results.
--pylab
  Pre-load matplotlib and numpy for interactive use with
  the default matplotlib backend.
--banner
  Display a banner upon starting IPython.
--no-pprint
  Disable auto pretty printing of results.
--confirm-exit
  Set to confirm when you try to exit IPython with an EOF (Control-D
  in Unix, Control-Z/Enter in Windows). By typing 'exit' or 'quit',
  you can force a direct exit without any confirmation.
--pdb
  Enable auto calling the pdb debugger after every exception.
--autoedit-syntax
  Turn on auto editing of files with syntax errors.
--logappend=<Unicode> (InteractiveShell.logappend)
  Default: ''
  Start logging to the given file in append mode.
--logfile=<Unicode> (InteractiveShell.logfile)
  Default: ''
  The name of the logfile to use.
--profile-dir=<Unicode> (ProfileDir.location)
  Default: ''
  Set the profile location directly. This overrides the logic used by the
  `profile` option.
--cache-size=<Int> (InteractiveShell.cache_size)
  Default: 1000
  Set the size of the output cache. The default is 1000, you can change it
  permanently in your config file. Setting it to 0 completely disables the
  caching system, and the minimum value accepted is 20 (if you provide a value
  less than 20, it is reset to 0 and a warning is issued). This limit is
  defined because otherwise you'll spend more time re-flushing a too small
  cache than working
--log-level=<Enum> (Application.log_level)
  Default: 30
  Choices: (0, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 'DEBUG', 'INFO', 'WARN', 'ERROR', 'CRITICAL')
  Set the log level by value or name.
-m <Unicode> (InteractiveShellApp.module_to_run)
  Default: ''
  Run the module as a script.
--config=<Unicode> (BaseIPythonApplication.extra_config_file)
  Default: ''
  Path to an extra config file to load.
  If specified, load this config file in addition to any other IPython config.
--gui=<CaselessStrEnum> (InteractiveShellApp.gui)
  Default: None
  Choices: ('glut', 'gtk', 'gtk3', 'osx', 'pyglet', 'qt', 'qt5', 'tk', 'wx')
  Enable GUI event loop integration with any of ('glut', 'gtk', 'gtk3', 'osx',
  'pyglet', 'qt', 'qt5', 'tk', 'wx').
--autocall=<Enum> (InteractiveShell.autocall)
  Default: 0
  Choices: (0, 1, 2)
  Make IPython automatically call any callable object even if you didn't type
  explicit parentheses. For example, 'str 43' becomes 'str(43)' automatically.
  The value can be '0' to disable the feature, '1' for 'smart' autocall, where
  it is not applied if there are no more arguments on the line, and '2' for
  'full' autocall, where all callable objects are automatically called (even
  if no arguments are present).
--colors=<CaselessStrEnum> (InteractiveShell.colors)
  Default: 'Linux'
  Choices: ('NoColor', 'LightBG', 'Linux')
  Set the color scheme (NoColor, Linux, or LightBG).
--ipython-dir=<Unicode> (BaseIPythonApplication.ipython_dir)
  Default: ''
  The name of the IPython directory. This directory is used for logging
  configuration (through profiles), history storage, etc. The default is
  usually $HOME/.ipython. This option can also be specified through the
  environment variable IPYTHONDIR.
--ext=<Unicode> (InteractiveShellApp.extra_extension)
  Default: ''
  dotted module name of an IPython extension to load.
--matplotlib=<CaselessStrEnum> (InteractiveShellApp.matplotlib)
  Default: None
  Choices: ['auto', 'gtk', 'gtk3', 'inline', 'nbagg', 'notebook', 'osx', 'qt', 'qt4', 'qt5', 'tk', 'wx']
  Configure matplotlib for interactive use with the default matplotlib
  backend.
-c <Unicode> (InteractiveShellApp.code_to_run)
  Default: ''
  Execute the given command string.
--pylab=<CaselessStrEnum> (InteractiveShellApp.pylab)
  Default: None
  Choices: ['auto', 'gtk', 'gtk3', 'inline', 'nbagg', 'notebook', 'osx', 'qt', 'qt4', 'qt5', 'tk', 'wx']
  Pre-load matplotlib and numpy for interactive use, selecting a particular
  matplotlib backend and loop integration.
--profile=<Unicode> (BaseIPythonApplication.profile)
  Default: 'default'
  The IPython profile to use.

To see all available configurables, use `--help-all`

Examples
--------

ipython --matplotlib    # enable matplotlib integration
ipython --matplotlib=qt  # enable matplotlib integration with qt4 backend

ipython --log-level=DEBUG # set logging to DEBUG
ipython --profile=foo   # start with profile foo

ipython qtconsole     # start the qtconsole GUI application
ipython help qtconsole   # show the help for the qtconsole subcmd

ipython console      # start the terminal-based console application
ipython help console    # show the help for the console subcmd

ipython notebook      # start the IPython notebook
ipython help notebook   # show the help for the notebook subcmd

ipython profile create foo # create profile foo w/ default config files
ipython help profile    # show the help for the profile subcmd

ipython locate       # print the path to the IPython directory
ipython locate profile foo # print the path to the directory for profile `foo`

ipython nbconvert      # convert notebooks to/from other formats
